According to World Health Organization, in 2019 at least 2.2 billion people have vision impairment or blindness, of whom 90% live in low income countries. (World health organization, 2019) Blindness and low-vision are important global issues because they confer increased morbidity and mortality, decreased quality of life, and substantial economic productivity loss. The majority of the visually impaired people live in developing countries like Botswana. The statistics Botswana show that in 2011 visual impairment was the most prevalent form of disability which totaled 48.6 percent of all disabilities in Botswana. The statistics also show that there is decline in attendances of new patients. Mobile applications have made life easier for many people living with blindness or visual impairment, being able to read things that are in visual print, recognizing the currency and speaking the denomination, identifying objects like a can of tomatoes, discovering the names of colors and be my eyes the app that connects sighted people to blind through live video. With all these apps in the market none of them offers full independence to the blind because each app serves only one function so I intend to develop an app that will give the blind their independence back by putting all the functions in one app and introducing the new navigation function. The apps that are in the market overlooked the fact that the majority of the blind community are from developing countries with poor internet connections and expensive charge rates, so this solution we intend to implement will not require internet to run so it caters for visually impaired living in Botswana and other developing countries.
